Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now as you can see here we're using partons Idol Shelfer this lecture and that's because we want instant
feedback from what we're going to be doing during the lecture.
So we were introduced briefly in the last lecture the Titans statement and every IF statement is like
a test and these tests are called conditional test.
And that's because each test can be evaluated as either true or false depending on the conditions within
them.
If a conditional test evaluates the true pipe and executes the code following the if statement.
If the test evaluates to false and ignores the code following the if statement.
The simplest conditional test checks whether the value of a variable is equal to the value of interest.
So let's take a look.
That's quite new very variable called Password.
Let's get at the value of Tony.
Perfect.
Now let's compare and see if our value within password which is Tony is equal to Tony which would come
from user input and it is to as we've seen plenty of times before is assigned a value of Tony to the
variable password a double equal sign is called the equality operator the equality operator returns
true if the values on both sides of it match and false if they don't match.
So for example here we know that the value on the left hand side of the equality operator password contains
the value.
Tony.
And on the right hand side if you call the operator we have Toney's.
So we press Enter we are returned true because both sides only call the operator are equal to each other.
When you are testing for equality implied in case matters two values with different capitalization are
not considered equal.
So let's take a look.
Password is equal to Tony with a capital T.
And we know that's going to be false because we know our password is Tony with alacrity false.
OK so far so good.
If the case matters like Windows or using a password or a sign in form that this behavior is very useful
but if it doesn't matter then you need to compare the variables value to lowercase before conducting
your tests.
And let's take a look now at how we would do it at first.
Let's create a new password password 1 and that's the sign at the value.
Frank would an upper case f great.
Now let's take that value.
And apply our lower case method.
And compare it to Frank
true.
So here we can see we've taken the value Frank with an upper case f we've lowered it and compared it
to Frank with a lowercase F..
And we've gotten the result of true.
So this has been a brief introduction into conditional test and the if statement in particular and we'll
look how to use that in bigger programs in the next lecture.
Thank you for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.